Wayne Dyer: so what we have to do is learn how to
take this ego of ours this part of us
that believes that who we are is what we
have and what we do and what other
people think of us but remember if you
grow up believing that you are what you
do then when you don't you aren't and if
you believe that you are what you have
when it's gone you aren't and if you
believe that you are what other people
think of you your reputation which we
raise people to believe it's Mike I have
to be concerned with what other people
think of me take this ego and retrain it
and one of the ways that you do to
retrain it is first you take this idea
that the ego has of fear what are you
afraid of anybody out there what are you
afraid of shift from fear to curiosity
become curious about what you're afraid
of that's what Lao Tzu taught me become
curious about what you're afraid of
you're afraid of flying get curious
about that get interested in that you're
afraid of snakes you're afraid of
disapproval you're afraid just shift
from fear and say I'm going to become
more curious about what I'm afraid of
and then take all of the things that
you're attached to like all of your
photographs okay all of your furniture
are like all of your clothing like all
of the stuff that you find so much
attachment to and start letting it go
start letting it go you know the day
that I turned that key on made the 11th
and 2006 I didn't even know where I was
going I just knew there was a shift
taking place I felt freer than I'd ever
felt I think in my life that's in my
mid-60s out there on a whole new
adventure and here we are talking about
on that on national television on PBS
take that idea that you have to be
attached to things and know that you
came in with nothing with no thing and
you're going to leave with nothing with
no thing and understand that your life
is a parenthesis in eternity live there
without attachments and then take your
need to be in control
of yourself of others of the situation
and shift some control to trust begin to
have it too loud sue is profound about
this and each one of the 81 verses it
comes up about 60 times as you look at
letting go and letting God allowing
yourself to trust in your nature
allowing yourself to no longer believe
that everything has to be controlled by
me and that other people no longer have
to be in control of me as well begin to
trust instruct just like you did for the
first nine months you trusted your nose
showed out your height showed up your
eyes showed up whatever it all showed up
it's all perfect it's all of us so why
not wander through your life and have
this wonderful peaceful knowing that
it's all fine and finally shift from
your sense of entitlement look nobody
nobody can treat me that way I'm
entitled to have this while I paid for
that I let go I mean back in one year I
let go of all of my entitlements I have
I don't feel on the title to anything
I'm just here shift from entitlements to
radical humility
Lao Tzu speaks about it so often stay
humble stay low the greatest leaders are
the ones who do the least the ones who
stay back and and just model and allow
and at the end of the day in one of the
verses of the Dalit says the people will
say we did it ourselves we did it
ourselves in verse 49 of the daodejing
here's an exact quote the sage is kind
to the kind and kind to the unkind
because the nature of his being is
kindness and also be wise and help all
beings impartially abandoning none you
know what I do just before I did this
program I have to admit I was nervous I
was humbled by it like who are you Wayne
Dyer
who are you to read the Dow and believe
that you can interpret it on television
and interpret it in a book and spend a
year and like I got real humble with
that and you know what I say Dow which
is just another word for God or source
or Krishna or Allah or whatever you want
to call it guide me guide me now I have
that awareness before I come out of you
if you new says in the Course in
Miracles if you knew who walked besides
you at all times on this path that you
have chosen you could never experience
fear or doubt again I remember mother
Teresa saying to a dear friend of mine
who was asking what could he do what
could he do to do something for her he
was a name was Pat McMahon he was on KTR
radio in the Phoenix and he finally
mother Teresa said to him you can do
something for me she said tomorrow
morning get up at 4:00 a.m. and go out
onto the streets of Phoenix and find
someone who's living there who believes
that he's alone and convinced him that
he's not that's what you can do that's
how Saints talk
that's how those loud Seuss book okay
let's go on to the next thought to
change so you're changing from not
trusting in your nature to trusting in
your nature your change your thoughts
from I need more to what I call living
contentment what is this thing about
more it's the if the mantra of the ego
isn't it I have to have more I have to
collect more stuff I have to have more
friends I have to have more money it's
more and more and more and more and more
when where you came from came from
nowhere you don't need anything it's a
continuous bombardment that we are all
exposed to in this whole world of
believing that we have to have more one
of the reasons why I love Public
Television so much you don't see ads on
PBS you don't have to be constantly
exposed to the idea that you have to
have more and you have to
and if you don't have this then you're
not complete and so on so we get
bombarded with this idea of attracting
more and Lao Tzu says live contentment
live in a state of being contented
here's the verse 81 the last verse of
the daodejing my favorite translation of
it and I put it right into the book
sages do not accumulate anything but
give everything to others having more
the more they give it's a great lesson
my son fans whose you know that were
very very close we just spent a couple
of months together over Maui just just
being together just being it was a
divine time and he came home with was
last summer he came home with 4 t-shirts
that he loved and I said well honey I
said which one do you like the best
he said well I that one over there that
blue one it's got the red and it's got
the drawing and it's got a surfer and I
said that's great I said I'd like to
have that one he said no no dad that's
my favorite that's the one I that's the
one I liked the best I said I know I
said that's the one would you mind if I
had that one he said I would mind a lot
if you had his helper he said maybe you
can have one I'm not so crazy about this
one over here I said so you're going to
give me something you don't like you
know I said I want that's the one I love
that because we have the same tape could
I have that one he's dead you're crazy
he said you can't have my favorite
t-shirt I said well I want you to think
about that I want you to think about
detaching and letting go and not needing
to have more and he's heard me talk
about this stuff his entire life so
finally he just you know I went in and I
tried it on and I said AHA distinguished
so great looking in the mirror and okay
that that that really is mine I said
yeah I said but you're gonna give it to
me he said no no I think so well just
think about it you know because I I'm
your dad and I'd really like to have
this so he reluctantly parted with it
and so the next the next that evening I
was still wearing the shirt and he
looked at me and he said that's my shirt
I said you know it fans I said that you
gave me the shirt I said I'm gonna wear
this shirt until you are happy that I
have your favorite shoe I'm going to
never going to take it off until you are
happy he said well you'll be wearing
that shirt a long time said well that's
ok so I wore it the next day I got up I
slept in it that night I got up to it I
did okay cut up the next morning I put
it on and that fans would come in and
we'd look at next oh you're still not
happy that you gave me something that
you really love because that this is
what it really means to be a sage this
is what it means to be a divine being to
be someone who's willing to depart with
not the things they don't like but what
they do like I wore it the next day I
wore it the next day
I worked for two weeks take it off only
to wash it put it right back on two
solid weeks he's one of my children will
treasure finally one day he said dad I'm
so happy I am so thrilled that you have
that t-shirt I said oh that's great I
can finally take this thing off I'm
going to I'm going to just give it away
but it's like what a great lesson in
that the idea that you take you know
there's a rule it's called the 80/20
rule and in the 80/20 rule it says
everything that you have all of your
stuff 20% of it is what you use all of
your clothes in your closet 23 just keep
using the same 20% over 80% of the
clothing that you have in your in your
closet for so many people is something
that you never use you don't work you
look at it you store it you think well
there might come a day I can't part with
that even though you've been carting it
around every time you move you move it
and you put it
take the 80% that you don't use says
loud to and give it away give it away
Lao Tzu says that when your cup is full
stop pouring when your cup is full stop
pouring we have an obesity crisis in the
United States in the Western world the
obesity crisis can be handled if you
just read the doll if you realize in
verse 33 it says if you realize you have
enough
you are truly rich if you could just
learn something called portion control
well you just take a bite and you say is
my cup full stop stop calling in other
words instead of filling yourself with
with that which is already a surplus and
the dollar teaches us to take surpluses
and to reduce them and to take
deficiencies and increase them so that
we create balance in our lives to be in
balance you can take the jewelry that
you don't use you can take the clothing
it and then once you've given away the
80% that you don't use take one of the
things that you really like and practice
giving that away it's such a wonderful
way listen to this poem it was written
by a great Persian poet named Hafiz says
even after all this time the son never
says to the earth you owe me
just look what happens with a love like
that it lights up the whole sky it
lights up the whole sky
there's no always there's no owing you
don't have to be you can practice living
a state of contentment this was so
powerful for me you just can't imagine
how good it felt for one entire year to
walk through every day and say I'm
content I'm content I start out every
morning of my life the first words javi
says if there's only one prayer that you
say every day make it thank you just say
thank you that's how I start
wake up thank you God thank you thank
you source Thank You Dow whatever you
want to call the opening line of the Dow
says the Dow that can be named is not
the Dow as soon as you put a name on it
it dissolves there's no name for it it's
just endlessly invisibly constantly in a
state of creating out of a state of love
the next thought that the dow teaches us
to change change your thoughts change
your life you really do see so much of
the previous PBS specials that I've done
on inspiration and intention these were
teaching people generically how to think
differently what Lao Tzu taught me was
what to specifically think in place of
thinking that instead of thinking that I
don't trust my nature he said trust your
nature instead of saying I need more he
said you need less more is less that
comes right out of a doubt next thought
move from thinking in a rigid way to
thinking and being flexible soft and
allowing from rigidity to softness what
a wonderful transformation that is I was
standing looking at with my son Sam and
we were on Maui and we were looking at
water as water was going against
some rocks and some cliffs and so on and
in these pictures in this in this moment
I said to my son I said which do you
think is stronger the water or the cliff
the water or the rocks which one do you
think is more powerful and stronger and
he said well he said the rocks obviously
they're stronger and they're bigger and
Owen said but I said water is very very
patient isn't it how much chance to
those rocks have if there were if they
if they want to survive I mean what
chance do they have that way and and
Matsu is speaking to us about
understanding our nature by examining
how nature works and then making it
apply to our thoughts so that a soft
thought a thought that isn't a rigid
thought a thought that doesn't say you
have to be this way or you have to be
that way
a thought that is not stiff a sock that
water he there are so many references to
water and what we can learn from water
here 75% water the planet is 75% water
we are water the rest of us is just
muscled water it's just it's all water
and water is soft water can enter
anywhere you get into a conflict with
somebody else and you picture yourself
as water you can enter with water in any
place that there's an opening if you can
visualize yourself as a being who moves
into the space of water if you can see
yourself that way you can just enter
into those places and the people that
you love and your children and your
spouse and anyone at all and an enter
there softly hears verse 8 the supreme
good is water which nourishes all things
without trying to and verse 78 right
smack out of the doll nothing in the
world is softer and weaker than water
but for attacking the heart the
unyielding nothing can surpass it there
is nothing like it here it is I asked
when I
this set this beautiful set and thank
you designers for this I asked if I
could have water on the on mistake they
did it they figured it out there's a now
I'm going to try to get some of this
water okay so you get down here and it
just stops Allen just scoop this up at
night okay no tighter you hold it the
less chance you have of doing anything
with it isn't it how can I experience
water the way to experience water is to
just get saw just get unbending and
there it is that's what water is the
minute that grass but the minute I try
and Lao Tzu is saying the same thing is
true in everything in your life the more
you glass the more you try to hold on to
it the more you try to be rigid with it
the less control you have of the softer
you are the less rigid you are the more
flexible you are as a person the more
you can accomplish and this is a great
way to practice and parenting as well
and this idea that a rigid thought how
many times have you heard this idea that
if I tell you something I'm going to
stay consistent with it we have a set of
rules these are the rules and we'll do
it this way and the dialogue says the
more rules you make the more rule
breakers you create
it's true the more rules you have in
your house about how everything has to
go we had in our house my wife would
have a big jar of M&Ms
peanuts you know different with all
these different multicolored ones and so
and the kids in our house because we
didn't feed them sugar and we didn't
give them sodas and stuff like that so
they you know they were just more like a
decoration every once in a while someone
would take them they'd hardly ever be
replaced now when we had kids come over
to our house who weren't ever allowed to
have such horrible things you should
have seen their behavior you know they
would scoop them up they'd be putting
them in their pocket and they get their
curses and they don't put it up you know
the whole thing would be empty I said
what are you doing well well you mean
you could just have these whenever you
want them well we don't really have any
rules about that it's just it's not
something that we encourage or
discourage it's just there it's like
Emerson had a wonderful line he said a
foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of
little minds a foolish consistency a
rigid consistency so that there are many
people who will say if I say it on
Monday you can be absolutely certain
that on Wednesday I'm going to believe
the same thing regardless of what might
happen on Tuesday now Tuesday might have
something real that you might want to be
changing your mind
you might want to say you know I thought
that this time but now I've seen this
and now we can shift and you can see how
this can become when and so much about
the dollars on leadership leadership in
the family leadership in the community
leadership geopolitically less rigidity
more openness more willingness to listen
and say I changed my mind
because a foolish consistency is the
hobgoblin of little minds and what I
believed on Wednesday has changed
because of what happened on Tuesday now
another important thing to say to your
children to your friends to your lover
to your spouse's to whomever
to the people you work with words that
were so terrified to say but which give
us a sense of living with the doubt I
don't know I don't know I'll look it up
say it
I don't know doesn't hurt say it again
I don't know isn't it fearful I mean so
many things and it's like very freeing
because my kids call ask me something of
it I don't know they say dad you know
everything you know everything I said
well I don't know that and I'll look it
up I will try to find an answer to that
but I don't quite know I know that what
even you know I spent 20 years running
and I ran every day for 20 years for 22
years without missing a day 8 miles
never missed a day that's Richard all
right I'm call that obsessive but you
brush your teeth every day I used to say
and you don't call that obsessive and
you go to the bathroom every day and you
don't say well he's obsessively doing
that again today you don't do that but
anyway what I learned is that in even in
the world of exercise there are certain
things that are built in to make us
widget to make us stiff to make us hard
and we lift and we run and we kick and
we this is what we call getting working
out there's another kind of working out
that it's ancient it goes back to the
time of Lao Tzu and before which is
called yoga and yoga means union it
means union with your source and when
you do yoga you can stay in the same
place you can do the equivalent of 8
miles when I used to run 8 miles I had
to run four miles that way turn around
four miles back and I'd be sweating now
I can do yoga and I can just stand in
one place in a 90 minute by being supple
by making myself stretch by not being
hard and rigid I can you know I can get
that out there I can get that leg up I
can do these kinds of things and nine
and ninety minutes later you know it's
like I'm totally sweating until it and I
feel so different I used to when I would
go out at night to eat or something
after running so many miles running
marathons and
those things I'd go to get up and it
would be okay going to take a little
while okay and everything what's that
like
that doesn't happen anymore because I've
given up hard
I've given up being rigid and
substituted it for being supple for
being flexible for living a life in
which I don't have to always be so Fiat
listen to this verse of the daodejing
one of my all-time favorites verse
number 76 a man is born gentle and weak
at his death he becomes hard and stiff
all things including the grass and the
trees are soft and pliable in life dry
and brittle in depth stiffness is thus a
companion in death flexibility is a
companion in life and it's not just for
how you exercise it's how you think how
you think